**Week 1 - Translatability and Untranslatability**

T 1/7 Jeremy Munday - “A Translation Studies Perspective” (*Why Concepts
Matter, Chapter 1*). **SJ 1**

**“**The specification of the translation environment is certainly
complex. The wide range of extra-textual factors, including the
socio-cultural, political and ideological (in its wide cognitive sense
of “a special type of socially shared mental representations”), are far
from easy to differentiate…” p.43

R 1/9 Barbara Cassin – Dictionary of Untranslatables; “Introduction”
(xvii-xx), “To Translate” (1139-1151), and “Mimesis” (659-674)

**SJ 2**

“To speak of *untranslatables* in no way implies that the terms in question, or the expressions, the syntactical or grammatical turns, are not and cannot be translated: the untranslatable is rather what one keeps on (not) translating. But this indicates that their translation, into one language or another, creates a problem, to the extent of sometimes generating a neologism or impos- ing a new meaning on an old word. It is a sign of the way in which, from one language to another, neither the words nor the conceptual networks can simply be superimposed.” p.xvii

**Week 2 –The Translator’s Invisibility**

T 1/14 Lawrence Venuti – *The Translator’s Invisibility*, Chapter 1 **SJ
3**

“The dominance of transparency in English-language translation reflects
comparable trends in other cultural forms, including other forms of
writing. The enormous economic and political power acquired by
scientific research during the twentieth century, the postwar
innovations in advanced communications technologies to expand the
advertising and entertainment industries and support the economic cycle
of commodity production and exchange—these developments have affected
every medium, both print and electronic, by valorizing a purely
instrumental use of language and other means of representation and thus
emphasizing immediate intelligibility and the appearance of factuality.”
p.5

R 1/16 Richard Burton – Selections from *The Arabian Nights*; D.S.
Richards – “One Thousand

and One Nights – A History of the Text and Its Reception.” **SJ 4**

“Thus an accurate portrayal of the *Nights* in pre-modern Arabic
literature must situate it within the rather fluid stratum of popular
fictional literary production and as a work that was in many ways
undifferentiated from a large body of similar texts. Many of these
popular narratives and collections were compiled and copied not for
personal, silent reading, but rather to function as the basis for public
story-telling performances…. It would therefore be singularly
inappropriate to approach a work drawn from this domain of popular
medieval literature with preconceptions derived from the modern Western
idea of a bounded, cohesive ‘text’ produced to be silently consumed by
solitary readers.” p.273

**Week 3 - “Authentic” Translations**

T 1/21 Walter Benjamin – “The Task of The Translator” S**J5**

“Translation is so far removed from being the sterile equation of two
dead languages that of all literary forms it is the one charged with the
special mission of watching over the maturing process of the original
language and the birth pangs of its own.” p.256

R 1/23 The *Tao Te Ching* in 3 Versions **SJ 6**

Choose and analyze an interesting difference between the three versions
of the text we read.

**Week 4 – Cultural Translation**

T 1/28 Sarah Maitland – *What is Cultural Translation*? Chapter 1
**SJ7**

“To qualify as cultural translation a phenomenon of human expression in
the social sphere must be shown to engage in a contemplative work of
understanding addressed towards a particular substance, but it must also
have as its primary objective nothing short of the transformation of
human hearts and minds.” p.53

R 1/30 Monica Chuji - “Modernity, development, interculturality and
Sumak Kawsay or Living Well but not Better”; Javier Cuestas-Caza “Sumak
Kawsay is not Buen Vivir” **SJ 8**

“I believe that interculturality must be put in a framework to find
bridges in the transition between civilizactions. That is to say,
interculturality must be the form by which we conserve the best of this
system, to be journeying towards a new system that surpasses Capitalism
and modernity in a definitive way. Seen this way, interculturality
becomes one of the most convenient forms to overcome development and
journey towards sumak kawsay.” Monica Chuji, p. 3

**Week 5 - Localization and Capitalism**

T 2/4 Minako O’Hanagan – Transcreating Japanese Video Games
(*Translation and Translation Studies in Japan*, Chapter 10). **SJ 9**

Industry insiders generally agree that without Japanese contributions
the game sector would not have gone beyond “a passing fad” (Aoyama and
Izushi 2003: 424). Commenting on the power shift in the video game
industry from the United States to Japan, Consalvo (2006: 132)
cautiously remarks that the flow of cultural dominance for consoles and
many major games is currently in the direction from East to West, “with
Japan leading production, the USA and Europe following.”

**Week 6 – Translation and Bordering **

T 2/11 Naoki Sakai – “Translation and the Figure of the Border” **SJ
10**

How do we recognize the identity of each language - that is, justify
presuming that languages can be categorized in terms of one and many? Is
language a countable, like an apple or orange and unlike water? Is it
not possible to think of languages, for example, in terms of those
grammars in which the distinction of the singular and the plural is
irrelevant? What I am calling into question is the unity of language, a
certain positivity of discourse or historical a priori we apply whenever
a different language or difference in language is at

R 2/13 Hirata Atsutane – Selections from *Kōdō Taii* **SJ 11**

Hereupon, Master Motoori realized the worthlessness of learning obtained
through Chinese works, and expounded to the world that there is no
better vehicle than the Kojiki for clearly seeing the actual state of
the ancient, serious Way, which was reflected unmistakably in the
mirror….In order to appreciate the esteemed value of the Kojiki, the
student must know about the many tainted areas of the Nihon Shoki.
Without curing oneself of the bewildering disease of Chinese learning,
the worth sections of Kojiki will not be obvious…

**Week 7 – Genre and Experience**

T 2/18 Karatani Kojin – *The Origins of Modern Japanese Literature*, Ch.
2 **SJ 12**

The theme of the exploration of the modern selt however diverse its
dominates discussions of modern Japanese litera- ture. Yet It IS
laughable to speak of this modern *self* as if it were purely a mental
or psychological phenomenon. For this modern self -rooted in materiality
and comes into existence-if *I* may put It this way-only by being
established as a system. What *I* want *to* emphasize is the
systematicity of the very "inner *self"* that is usually seen as
challengmg systems.

R 2/20 Marah Rusli – Selections from *Sitti Nurbaya* **SJ 13**

“’Among Western People, the husband and wife are not normally brought
together by the ties of money or property, but instead by love and
affection. And for that reason their relationship is stronger. Because
of that love and affection, oftentimes they are unconcerned with
property, social standing, or rank. And furthermore they are bound
together by a promise of loyalty.’

‘And why should we follow the customs of infidels?’ Fatima interjected
while washing her hands”

**Week 8 – Postcolonial Translation**

T 2/25 Edouard Glissant – Selections from *The Poetics of Relation* **SJ
14**

The root is unique, a stock taking aIl upon itse1f and killing aIl
around it. In opposition ta this they propose the rhizome, an enmeshed
root system, a network spreading either in the ground or in the air,
with no predatory rootstock taking over permanently.

The notion of the rhizorne maintains, therefore, the idea of rootedness
but challenges that of a totalitarian root. Rhizomatic thought is the
principle behind what 1 calI the Poetics of Relation, in which each and
every identity is extended through a relationship with the Other.

R 2/27 Aimè Cesaire – *A Tempest*; Selections from Shakespeare’s *The
Tempest* **SJ 15**

Caliban: … You didn’t teach me a thing! Except to jabber in your own
language so that I could understand your orders… All because you’re too
lazy to do \[things\] yourself. And as for your learning, did you ever
impart any of that to me? No you took care not to. All your science you
keep for yourself alone, shut up in those big books.

**Week 9 –Translations as Mediation**

T 3/4 Monique Bedasse – “The Wages of Blackness.” **SJ 16** *Listen to
the Reggae playlist on the website*.

I could never pretend that the lyrics of the protest music, which were
the driving motivation of reggae, taught me things that I did not know.
From an intel- lectual point of view they were confirmatory of all that
I believed as a so- cialist and as a trade unionist. But I had not
myself been born in the ghetto and was not personally part of that
experience. Reggae music influenced me profoundly by deepening the
element of emotional comprehension.”

R 3/6 No Lecture. Work on your journals! Extra OH to look at SJs

**Week 10 – Translation and Aesthetics **

M 3/11 Davide Panagia – “Why Film Matters for Political Theory” **SJ
17**

I might put the matter this way: a clear argument is nothing other than
a series of discontinuous impressions, retroactively assembled according
to a conventionally available partition of the sensible. A pursuit of
the stochastic serialization of aspects as a mode of political thinking
thus comes closest to a form of thinking that resists the force of
necessity associated with the narratocrizing impulses of political
theory,4 especially as regards the liberal pedagogic ambition in
contemporary political thought that qualifies political participation
and the capacity for good thought

W 3/13 Course Wrap-Up. No reading *– in-class film montage (links to
YouTube on class website)*. **SJ 18**

What did you learn about the politics of translation in this course?
What is the most important idea you’ve encountered which you wish more
people understood?
